Source: https://apnews.com/article/mideast-wars-gaza-flotilla-greta-thunberg-b64e897fb37ee374e4494381304ff9be
Captured 2026-08-14. Text extract from saved HTML.

Verbatim from the same page:

> Israeli officials said the flotilla carried what amounted to less than a truckload of aid.

> “This wasn’t humanitarian aid. It’s Instagram activism,” Israeli government spokesperson David Mencer said. “Meanwhile, Israel has delivered over 1,200 truckloads in the last two weeks. So who’s really feeding Gaza and who’s really feeding their own ego? Greta was not bringing aid, she was bringing herself.”

> Israel’s Foreign Ministry cast the voyage as a public relations stunt, saying in a post on X that “the ‘selfie yacht’ of the ‘celebrities’ is safely making its way to the shores of Israel.”


Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. World News Gaza-bound aid boat with Greta Thunberg on board arrives in Israel after its seizure Gaza-bound aid boat with Greta Thunberg on board arrives in Israel after its seizure 1 of 9 | The Freedom Flotilla Coalition, which had organized the voyage, had set out to protest Israel’s ongoing military campaign in the Gaza Strip. The group said activists were “kidnapped by Israeli forces”. Israel’s Foreign Ministry portrayed the voyage as a public relations stunt. Read More 2 of 9 | Israeli forces seized a Gaza-bound aid boat and detained Greta Thunberg and other activists who were on board early Monday, enforcing a longstanding blockade of the Palestinian territory that has been tightened during the Israel-Hamas war. The boat, accompanied by the Israeli navy, was spotted off southern Israel’s coast on Monday evening on its way to the Ashdod port, according to an Associated Press journalist at the scene. The activists were expected to be held at a detention facility in the Israeli city of Ramle before being deported, according to Adalah, a legal rights group representing the activists. Read More 3 of 9 | The Freedom Flotilla Coalition, which had organized the voyage to deliver humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip and protest Israel’s blockade and wartime conduct, said the activists had been “kidnapped by Israeli forces” and released pre-recorded messages from them. Israel’s Foreign Ministry cast the voyage as a public relations stunt, saying in a post on X that “the ‘selfie yacht’ of the ‘celebrities’ is safely making its way to the shores of Israel.” Read More 4 of 9 | Israeli forces have stopped a Gaza-bound aid boat and detained Greta Thunberg and other activists on board, enforcing a longstanding blockade of the Palestinian territory that has been tightened during the war with Hamas. Read More 5 of 9 | The Gaza-bound aid boat, Madleen, under escort of Israeli naval forces enters to Ashdod Port in southern Israel after being seized by Israeli forces, Monday, June 9, 2025. (AP Photo/Leo Correa) Read More 6 of 9 | Activists of the Freedom Flotilla Coalition, board the Madleen boat, ahead of setting sail for Gaza, departing from the Sicilian port of Catania, Italy, Sunday, June 1, 2025. (AP Photo/Salvatore Cavalli) Read More 7 of 9 | Climate activist Greta Thunberg with other activists from a human rights organization meets with journalists in Catania, Italy, Sunday, June 1, 2025, ahead of their departure for the Mideast. (AP Photo/Salvatore Cavalli) Read More 8 of 9 | People wave the Palestinian flag and hold signs in support of Greta Thunberg and other activists who tried to deliver aid to Gaza before their ship was seized and they were detained by Israeli forces, near the port of Ashdod, Israel, Monday, June 9, 2025. (AP Photo/Leo Correa) Read More 9 of 9 | The Gaza-bound aid boat, Madleen, left, under escort of Israeli naval forces making its way toward Ashdod Port in southern Israel after being seized by Israeli forces, Monday, June 9, 2025. (AP Photo/Leo Correa) Read More Gaza-bound aid boat with Greta Thunberg on board arrives in Israel after its seizure Read More 1 of 9 The Freedom Flotilla Coalition, which had organized the voyage, had set out to protest Israel’s ongoing military campaign in the Gaza Strip. The group said activists were “kidnapped by Israeli forces”. Israel’s Foreign Ministry portrayed the voyage as a public relations stunt. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 2 of 9 Israeli forces seized a Gaza-bound aid boat and detained Greta Thunberg and other activists who were on board early Monday, enforcing a longstanding blockade of the Palestinian territory that has been tightened during the Israel-Hamas war. The boat, accompanied by the Israeli navy, was spotted off southern Israel’s coast on Monday evening on its way to the Ashdod port, according to an Associated Press journalist at the scene. The activists were expected to be held at a detention facility in the Israeli city of Ramle before being deported, according to Adalah, a legal rights group representing the activists. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 3 of 9 The Freedom Flotilla Coalition, which had organized the voyage to deliver humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip and protest Israel’s blockade and wartime conduct, said the activists had been “kidnapped by Israeli forces” and released pre-recorded messages from them. Israel’s Foreign Ministry cast the voyage as a public relations stunt, saying in a post on X that “the ‘selfie yacht’ of the ‘celebrities’ is safely making its way to the shores of Israel.” --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 4 of 9 Israeli forces have stopped a Gaza-bound aid boat and detained Greta Thunberg and other activists on board, enforcing a longstanding blockade of the Palestinian territory that has been tightened during the war with Hamas. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 5 of 9 | The Gaza-bound aid boat, Madleen, under escort of Israeli naval forces enters to Ashdod Port in southern Israel after being seized by Israeli forces, Monday, June 9, 2025. (AP Photo/Leo Correa) Read More 5 of 9 The Gaza-bound aid boat, Madleen, under escort of Israeli naval forces enters to Ashdod Port in southern Israel after being seized by Israeli forces, Monday, June 9, 2025. (AP Photo/Leo Correa) -